first have any of you been to the Jewish
Museum raise of hands a few oh wait
alright so the number one question I
always get when people when people know
that I work at the Jewish Museum is
where is the Jewish Museum and having
worked at the Guggenheim before I can
let you know that it's three blocks
north from 89th Street so 92nd and Fifth
Avenue across from Central Park I've
been working in museums now for over a
decade specifically on digital
initiatives and my job addresses the
question of how we can use technology to
make museums and are more accessible as
a design solution so that we can reach
more people but to a lot of people when
I say I'm the director of digital these
very sexy keywords pop up and it's not
what I do so rather than being in the
business of designing shiny products
kind of implementing technology for the
sake of technology my job is actually
about using technology to think about my
role as a translator an interpreter and
a problem solver and why do you think we
need translation in the art world so a
lot of times when you look at wall text
at a museum you see words like this that
make no sense our press releases and our
interpretive media is often
unintelligible to the public because
these are written by art historians who
assume that they're really just speaking
to themselves and they are but on the
other hand as technologists we can be
just as alienating in our language so we
use terms that are you know acronyms
that make no sense to people who are
historians and so in my role as a museum
technologist we have to be fluent in
both art and technology the idea of
museums and technology is also a bit of
a paradox because technology is new and
museums are not whereas innovation and
technology's always about iterating and
creating something that's looking
towards the future the mission of
a museum if you think about it is
thinking about how we preserve the
objects of our time for generations to
come
to better understand ourselves through
the past and something else that we have
to always keep in mind is the fact in
the reality that museums are not
technology companies they're not
startups we're not here to invent any
new things we're here to leverage what's
been built already to reach more
audiences and so when I approach any
project I always ask the question if
technology is the answer what was the
question what are the problems we're
actually trying to solve at hand
so the problem at most museums is this
by show of hands how many of you have
actually used a museum act when you go
into a museum typically they're used as
audio guides very few of you thank you
for for just pretending I know they've
been you know very helpful didactic
tools for some but honestly we know that
you know in the age of apps we're now in
this very post app environment so maybe
you know 10 years ago in the app store
opened Apple coined the term there's an
app for that because there really was an
app for every single thing including
every museum but what happened to all of
those apps so for the average iPhone
user we download over a hundred apps in
our phone but we use less than a quarter
of them and after downloading most apps
less than 77 percent of its users are
retained and we also see that our top
five apps take up most of our time so
here's my phone and how I use technology
as you can see I spend a lot of time on
Instagram and zero time on museum apps
so at the Jewish Museum we also caught
the app fever for a moment and by we I
mean people who worked there before me
before I arrived so this is my phone
when I got there so for some reason
someone thought would be a great idea to
create a new app for every single
exhibition audioguide and so every six
months we would release a new app that
you had to download and of course none
of that content was available anywhere
else it was locked inside of the app we
also unlike other museums did not have
an institutional app that we kept
updating over time and of course as
operating systems change these were also
not updated so that could not have
continued to happen so some of the
obvious challenges that a lot of museums
face are these so of course apps are a
huge barrier to entry you have to enter
a space that has a shitty Wi-Fi
infrastructure and then have to like
doubt wait to download your app and it
takes up all the space it becomes a very
disjointed museum experience and of
course what we saw with our
front-of-house staff was that most of
the people working at the front desk
they were spending all their time
teaching people how to reset their
iTunes passwords I was kind of teaching
them about art so that also did not work
and let's just get real nobody wants to
download a museum app so at the Jewish
Museum about two years ago we completely
redesigned our collection display so for
those of you who haven't been to the
museum before that 25 years ago we had a
very traditional linear interpretation
of the history of art so you would go
through from antiquities to contemporary
art and most recently reexamined our
collection to think about somatic
connections between objects kind of
convey in this idea this new musial G
idea that all art was once contemporary
and we can have interesting connections
that are made between time and place so
here's one example this is the main
gallery where we have a massive
beautiful painting by
the artist Kehinde Wiley whose most well
known for doing Barack Obama's official
portrait so that is on your right and on
the left is a 19th century Ukrainian
misra it's a Jewish ritual object and
the artist actually went to our web site
found this object and painted it into
the background of this painting so
that's really what inspired this
portrait and both of them are now on
view at the Museum and that's really
what distinguishes the Jewish Museum
from other institutions here back here
but the shootings iam our objects tell
stories all of our objects once belong
to someone they tell the story of life
and experiences really for people of all
backgrounds so how do we tell these
stories so for people who don't want to
read the wall text and also don't know
any background about contemporary art or
Jewish culture two very different
subject matters but with the lowest
barrier to entry audio guides have
always been the most impactful way and
kind of the most innovative technology
of its time when they first came out and
it's still relevant because audio is the
power of using a portal to tell stories
and storytelling and they also give you
the impression that the curator the
artist is there walking you through the
gallery and it's also important to note
that the experience of looking at art we
feel is still primary in this experience
so rather than you know this dorky
gesture of holding your phone up into an
object there isn't going to be an
invasive experience when you're just
listening to the immersive experience of
audio and really having a one-on-one
relationship with the art so the art
world and should continue to be the
primary source of a visitor's focus not
the technology so we approached a new
project that would address all of these
problems and these were our goals first
we wanted to create something that was
very accessible very easy to use we also
have a much older audience that come to
the museum people who sometimes minimize
screens and forget where they are
we also have the need for people to
continue to come back to the museum so
our audience is also much more local as
opposed to other museums in New York
City that attract more tourists from a
technology perspective this project was
luck luckily funded through the support
of Bloomberg philanthropies who's been a
long-standing partner of the museum
often what happens with funding I think
for people who just attended those
workshops earlier during lunch museums
you know they tend to birth projects in
the way that you have this singular time
of injected funds because you want to
build something but no one ever wants to
fund maintenance so we also wanted to
create something that would continue to
be sustainable over time that we could
support on our own my personal goal as
someone who works at a museum but has
never ever picked up an audio guide is
to design something that I would
actually use myself so the solution we
came up with was a plaster a platform
agnostic mobile tour experience and I'll
explain what that means so we wanted to
make sure all of our content would be
accessible and streaming across all of
our different platforms not just mobile
but also when people visit our website
and also come on-site and maybe don't
have a device on their own in the year
2019 of course most people do bring
their own phones to a museum and from
surveys we know that over ninety percent
of our visitors do but a very specific
factor that is very specific to the
Jewish Museum is that on Saturdays where
a majority of our visitation occurs
admission is free but we also are an
institution that observes the Sabbath
the Jewish day of rest so the museum is
open but we don't accept admission
however we also can't hand out
technology or devices or have anything
interactive so we also needed to address
a solution that would address 40% of
people who would come for free so this
was the problem how did we hack this
Wi-Fi is the lowest common denominator
of digital experiences so because
technically for people who aren't
observant we can encourage them to use
their own phones and bring their own
devices and use technology in their
galleries we wanted to make sure this
infrastructure was in place so we
implemented a major upgrade of our all
of our Wi-Fi networks tripled the number
of access points in the building we're
also leveraging the power of the Wi-Fi
system to collect data from visitors so
when you sign in we can collect your
email address and continue to keep in
touch all the data goes into our CRM and
this is the interface where we take your
information automatically you're
redirected to a page that will take you
to streaming audio guides on a web-based
platform where you don't have to
download an app we also about a year ago
set all of our content free that you
still live on those apps that were
locked away so now all of our audio
guides are also streaming on Soundcloud
a very cost efficient but widely
accessible way of uploading all of our
archive back online so you can now also
listen to audio on our website and this
is a project that we just launched last
week at the Museum but it's also
available off-site on any mobile web
browser so if you go to tourist at the
Jewish Museum org we developed what's
called a single page application which
basically means it gives you the
functionality of an app without having
to download an app so it's basically a
web app you can access it on any mobile
device or any browser the design is also
responsive based on the type of phone
you have and we borrowed from the
language of apps that people are
familiar with so thinking about Spotify
that has a very singular purpose of
providing audio in a playlist so we took
a very simplified user in
her face and adapted it for our needs
for looking at images so here's a walk
through what we put together so when you
go to our website tourist at the Jewish
Museum org there are three different
ways of exploring our exhibitions so you
can do something that's more thematic
based on different artists and their
perspectives for the more traditional
audioguide user you can continue to
input the number that you see on the
wall and that will give you a result of
someone speaking about that object or
you can navigate by floor we're not a
very big museum so it's also a very
deliberate decision to not implement
beacons or anything that would really
drain your phone battery so we really
just decided to create a wayfinding tool
for people to determine what floor what
shows were on each floor so in addition
to the technology infrastructure we also
wanted to completely rethink our content
strategy so rather than think about your
traditional audio tour where you have
the experts or curators telling you
about a single way of looking at
something why not hear from the artists
so we invited artists from our
collection Isaac Mizrahi Kehinde Wiley
Alex Amira Coleman Arlene shaked to talk
about their own work in the collection
but also other works that inspire them
we also developed tours for visitors
with disabilities as well as kids and
families and here's a sample of one of
the pieces so this is a painting by an
artist named Mel Bachner and a curator
could tell you that he was an artist who
was part of the conceptual art movement
of the 1960s and he focused his career
on the cerebral and visual Association
of words but for me personally I'd
rather hear what Isaac Mizrahi has to
say about it see if this works
we worked so hard to get the audio on is
it playing okay you'll have to imagine
and then just go okay you guys all have
to do it on your own then sorry
so I'm often asked my the second most
frequently asked question when I tell
people I work at the Jewish Museum is
are you Jewish and the answer is no you
don't have to be Jewish to work at the
Jewish Museum or a museum for people of
all backgrounds and in that same vein
our approach to technology follows the
same mission so in being platform
agnostic in developing a mobile solution
it's an experience that can be
accessible to everyone and no there
isn't an app for that thank you
[Applause]